# Programming as Conversation Part 3: Introduction

## Learning Goals

* Define abstraction

## Introduction

A **paragraph** is a collection of sentences, aligned by a topic sentence and
bundled up or closed by a closing sentence. A **paragraph** can persuade or
offend, direct, or explain. A paragraph has a _function_.

"Code paragraphs" are called, depending on language, "functions," "procedures,"
"methods," or "subroutines." They bundle up expressions and statements to
accomplish a task. Just as "Make a Sandwich" encompasses specific, "atomic"
actions like like "get slice of bread," "get jelly," etc.,
`retreive_avatar_image_for_user` encompasses logic like `if user_name == nil`
or `if image_url == nil`

To have code that is easy to read, debug, and maintain, we need to bundle
collections of atomic activities into paragraphs that do work &mdash; methods.

## Abstraction

This process of bundling up small atoms into a collective, non-specific name is
called "abstraction." "Abstraction" comes from the Latin word for "to pull
away." When we "abstract" we "zoom out" or "pull away" from the tiny details
and refer to a larger collection, made up from those small details, by a
"larger name."

"Matt," "Lore," and "Kellye" are atomic individuals, but we can refer to them
all collectively by the abstraction "New Yorkers." Books about a killer dog, a
scary alter ego, and a scary clown can be _abstracted_ into the name "horror
novels (by Stephen King)."

Abstraction is a perfectly natural part of learning to converse. When you're
first learning to communicate, you don't know enough to start talking about
abstractions. But as you learn about opposites, how things are similar (and
how, perhaps one thing is dissimilar) you grow  in your ability to _abstract_

In fact the thing that makes most higher learning "higher" learning is that the
discussion, work, and discovery is focused on working primarily with
abstractions over specifics (e.g. mathematics, physics, chemistry).

## Next Steps

Ruby calls bundles of statements that, together, accomplish a unit of work or
process, ***methods***. In Programming as Conversation 3 we'll learn to take
our _expressions_ and _statements_ and bundle them up into abstractions called
_methods_.
